website/versioned_docs/version-0.24.0/references/cli-reference/gitops_set.md, before:

## gitops set

Sets one or many Weave GitOps CLI configs or resources

### Examples

```

# Enables analytics in the current user's CLI configuration for Weave GitOps
gitops set config analytics true
```

### Options

```
  -h, --help   help for set
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
  -e, --endpoint WEAVE_GITOPS_ENTERPRISE_API_URL   The Weave GitOps Enterprise HTTP API endpoint can be set with WEAVE_GITOPS_ENTERPRISE_API_URL environment variable
      --insecure-skip-tls-verify                   If true, the server's certificate will not be checked for validity. This will make your HTTPS connections insecure
      --kubeconfig string                          Paths to a kubeconfig. Only required if out-of-cluster.
  -n, --namespace string                           The namespace scope for this operation (default "flux-system")
  -p, --password WEAVE_GITOPS_PASSWORD             The Weave GitOps Enterprise password for authentication can be set with WEAVE_GITOPS_PASSWORD environment variable
  -u, --username WEAVE_GITOPS_USERNAME             The Weave GitOps Enterprise username for authentication can be set with WEAVE_GITOPS_USERNAME environment variable
```

### SEE ALSO

* [gitops](gitops.md)	 - Weave GitOps
* [gitops set config](gitops_set_config.md)	 - Set the CLI configuration for Weave GitOps

###### Auto generated by spf13/cobra on 24-May-2023

Commit message:

chore: update references
Updated every import and other URLs referencing the old Weave GitOps
repository.

website/versioned_docs/version-0.24.0/references/cli-reference/gitops_set.md, after:

## gitops set

Sets one or many Flux-GUI CLI configs or resources

### Examples

```

# Enables analytics in the current user's CLI configuration for Flux-GUI
gitops set config analytics true
```

### Options

```
  -h, --help   help for set
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
  -e, --endpoint WEAVE_GITOPS_ENTERPRISE_API_URL   The Flux-GUI Enterprise HTTP API endpoint can be set with WEAVE_GITOPS_ENTERPRISE_API_URL environment variable
      --insecure-skip-tls-verify                   If true, the server's certificate will not be checked for validity. This will make your HTTPS connections insecure
      --kubeconfig string                          Paths to a kubeconfig. Only required if out-of-cluster.
  -n, --namespace string                           The namespace scope for this operation (default "flux-system")
  -p, --password WEAVE_GITOPS_PASSWORD             The Flux-GUI Enterprise password for authentication can be set with WEAVE_GITOPS_PASSWORD environment variable
  -u, --username WEAVE_GITOPS_USERNAME             The Flux-GUI Enterprise username for authentication can be set with WEAVE_GITOPS_USERNAME environment variable
```

### SEE ALSO

* [gitops](gitops.md)	 - Flux-GUI
* [gitops set config](gitops_set_config.md)	 - Set the CLI configuration for Flux-GUI

###### Auto generated by spf13/cobra on 24-May-2023
