website/versioned_docs/version-0.28.0/enterprise/getting-started/install-enterprise.mdx, before:

---
title: Install Weave GitOps Enterprise
hide_title: true
pagination_next: enterprise/getting-started/releases-enterprise
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import TierLabel from "@site/docs/_components/TierLabel";
import CurlCodeBlock from "../../_components/CurlCodeBlock";
import oauthBitbucket from '/img/oauth-bitbucket.png';
import oauthAzureDevOps from '/img/oauth-azure-devops.png';
import oauthAzureDevOpsSuccess from '/img/oauth-azure-devops-success.png';

# Install Weave GitOps Enterprise<TierLabel tiers="Enterprise" />

:::info
To purchase an entitlement to Weave GitOps Enterprise, please contact [info@weaveworks.org](mailto:info@weaveworks.org).
:::

Follow the instructions on this page to:

import TOCInline from "@theme/TOCInline";

<TOCInline toc={(() => {
           const trimStart = toc.slice(toc.findIndex((node) => node.id == 'install-weave-gitops-enterprise')+1);
           return trimStart.slice(0, trimStart.findIndex((node) => node.level == '4'));
           })()} />

:::tip
There is no need to install the open source version of Weave GitOps before installing Weave GitOps Enterprise.
:::

## Example: Set up a Management Cluster with CAPA and EKS

To get you started, we'll cover EKS as our management cluster with the CAPA provider. Please note again that Weave GitOps Enterprise supports [clusters without Cluster API](../../cluster-management/managing-clusters-without-capi.mdx), as well as any combination of management cluster and CAPI provider.

### Prep Step: Create a Repository
Create a new private GitHub repository and give it a name. We'll call our repo `fleet-infra`.

Set up a Git client for your private repo. For GitHub, see their docs on [setting your username](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/getting-started-with-git/setting-your-username-in-git#setting-your-git-username-for-every-repository-on-your-computer) and [setting your email address](https://docs.github.com/en/account-and-profile/setting-up-and-managing-your-personal-account-on-github/managing-email-preferences/setting-your-commit-email-address#setting-your-email-address-for-every-repository-on-your-computer).

[Cluster API](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/introduction.html) provides declarative APIs, controllers, and tooling to manage the lifecycle of Kubernetes clusters, across a large number of [infrastructure providers](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/reference/providers.html#infrastructure).
The CAPI custom resource definitions are platform-independent as each provider implementation handles the creation of virtual machines,
VPCs, networks, and other required infrastructure parts, enabling consistent and repeatable cluster deployments.

The following example and steps reflect Flux’s architecture and operations. Go [here](https://fluxcd.io/docs/cmd/) for more detailed documentation about Flux.

### 1. CAPA Setup

Cluster API requires kubectl access to an existing Kubernetes cluster. For this example, configure kubectl to use the management cluster:

```bash
export KUBECONFIG=/path/to/kubeconfig
```

After having configured kubectl, deploy the CAPA components by following the [steps provided by Cluster API documentation](https://cluster-api-aws.sigs.k8s.io/getting-started.html#install-clusterctl).

### 2. Prepare IAM for Installation

Cluster API needs special permissions in AWS. Use the `clusterawsadm` command below to roll out a CloudStack and install the permissions into your AWS account. Although the CloudStack is bound to a region, the resulting permissions are globally scoped. You can use any AWS Region that you have access to. 

The `clusterawsadm` command takes an AWSIAMConfiguration file. [Cluster API docs provide the command](https://cluster-api-aws.sigs.k8s.io/topics/using-clusterawsadm-to-fulfill-prerequisites.html#with-eks-support) for you; run this.

Run the `clusterawsadm` command to create an IAM group:

```bash
clusterawsadm bootstrap iam create-cloudformation-stack --config eks-config.yaml --region $REGION
```

Create an IAM User, which will be used as a kind of service account, and assign the newly created group to this user. The group name will be something like: `cluster-api-provider-aws-s-AWSIAMGroupBootstrapper-XXXX`. 

Create a secret for the newly created IAM user.

### 3. Create the Cluster

In testing, we used the following values:
`$INSTANCESIZE` : t3.large
`$NUMOFNODES` : 2
`$MINNODES` : 2
`$MAXNODES` : 6

```bash
eksctl create cluster -n "$CLUSTERNAME" -r "$REGION" --nodegroup-name workers -t $INSTANCESIZE --nodes $NUMOFNODES --nodes-min $MINNODES --nodes-max $MAXNODES --ssh-access --alb-ingress-access
```

### 4. Add the Cluster to kubeconfig

Once you've created your cluster, add it to your `kubeconfig`:

```bash
aws eks --region "$REGION" update-kubeconfig --name "$CLUSTERNAME"
```

### 5. Install Flux Onto Your Cluster with the `flux bootstrap` Command

The `flux bootstrap` command enables you to deploy Flux on a cluster the GitOps way. Go [here](https://fluxcd.io/docs/cmd/) for more information about the `flux bootstrap` command.

<Tabs groupId="infrastructure" default>
<TabItem value="github" label="GitHub">

```bash
flux bootstrap github \
  --owner=<github username> \
  --repository=fleet-infra \
  --branch=main \
  --path=./clusters/management \
  --personal \
  --components-extra image-reflector-controller,image-automation-controller
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="gitlab" label="GitLab">

```bash
flux bootstrap gitlab \
  --owner=<gitlab username> \
  --repository=fleet-infra \
  --branch=main \
  --path=./clusters/management \
  --personal \
  --components-extra image-reflector-controller,image-automation-controller
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Your private GitHub repo should have a clusters/management folder that includes the manifests Flux needs to operate, and that also generates a key value pair for Flux to access the repo. 

* **owner**: The username (or organization) of the Git repository
* **repository**: Git repository name
* **branch**: Git branch (default "main")
* **path**: Path relative to the repository root; when specified, the cluster sync will be scoped to this path
* **personal**: If set, the owner is assumed to be a repo user
* **components-extra**: Additional controllers to install

At this point your Flux management cluster should be running. Take a look at the repository you created earlier.

### 6. Install CAPA

You do not need to install a CAPI provider to provision Kubernetes clusters using Weave GitOps Enterprise—you can also provision with Terraform. But for this example with CAPA, you must.

Download a specific version of clusterctl from the [releases page](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api/releases). We've tested the example templates provided in this guide with `clusterctl` version `1.1.3`.

Next, run this command:

```bash
export EXP_EKS=true
export EXP_MACHINE_POOL=true
export CAPA_EKS_IAM=true
export EXP_CLUSTER_RESOURCE_SET=true

clusterctl init --infrastructure aws
```

Please note that, while the next few steps apply to our example, they are also relevant whether you're using another CAPI provider or none at all.

## Apply the Entitlements Secret

Contact info@weaveworks.org for a valid entitlements secret. Then apply it to the cluster:

```bash
kubectl apply -f entitlements.yaml
```

## Configure Access for Writing to Git from the Weave GitOps Enterprise UI

Here we provide guidance for GitHub, GitLab, BitBucket Server, and Azure DevOps.

<Tabs groupId="git-provider" default>
<TabItem value="github" label="GitHub">
GitHub requires no additional configuration for OAuth git access
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="gitlab" label="GitLab">

Create a GitLab OAuth application that will request `api` permissions to create pull requests on your behalf.

Follow the [GitLab docs](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/integration/oauth_provider.html).

The application should have at least these scopes:

- `api`
- `openid`
- `email`
- `profile`

Add callback URLs to the application for each address the UI will be exposed on, e.g.:

- `https://localhost:8000/oauth/gitlab` for port-forwarding and testing
- `https://git.example.com/oauth/gitlab` for production use

Save your application, taking note of the **Client ID** and **Client Secret**. Save
them into the `git-provider-credentials` secret, along with:

- `GIT_HOST_TYPES` to tell WGE that the host is gitlab
- `GITLAB_HOSTNAME` where the OAuth app is hosted

**Replace values** in this snippet and run:

```bash
kubectl create secret generic git-provider-credentials --namespace=flux-system \
  --from-literal="GITLAB_CLIENT_ID=13457" \
  --from-literal="GITLAB_CLIENT_SECRET=24680" \
  --from-literal="GITLAB_HOSTNAME=git.example.com" \
  --from-literal="GIT_HOST_TYPES=git.example.com=gitlab"
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="bitbucket-server" label="BitBucket Server">

Create a new [incoming application link](https://confluence.atlassian.com/bitbucketserver/configure-an-incoming-link-1108483657.html) from
the BitBucket administration dashboard. You will be asked to enter a unique name and the redirect URL for the external application. The redirect URL
should be set to `<WGE dashboard URL>/oauth/bitbucketserver`. You will also need to select permissions for the application. The minimum set of
permissions needed for WGE to create pull requests on behalf of users is `Repositories - Write`. An example of configuring these settings is shown below.

<figure>

<img src={oauthBitbucket} width="500"/>

<figcaption>Configuring a new incoming application link</figcaption>
</figure>


Save your application and take note of the **Client ID** and **Client Secret**. Save
them into the `git-provider-credentials` secret, along with:

- `GIT_HOST_TYPES` to tell WGE that the host is bitbucket-server
- `BITBUCKET_SERVER_HOSTNAME` where the OAuth app is hosted

**Replace values** in this snippet and run:

```bash
kubectl create secret generic git-provider-credentials --namespace=flux-system \
  --from-literal="BITBUCKET_SERVER_CLIENT_ID=13457" \
  --from-literal="BITBUCKET_SERVER_CLIENT_SECRET=24680" \
  --from-literal="BITBUCKET_SERVER_HOSTNAME=git.example.com" \
  --from-literal="GIT_HOST_TYPES=git.example.com=bitbucket-server"
```

If the secret is already present, use the following command to update it using your default editor:

```bash
kubectl edit secret generic git-provider-credentials --namespace=flux-system
```

:::info

If BitBucket Server is running on the default port (7990), make sure you include the port number in the values of the secret. For example: `GIT_HOST_TYPES=git.example.com:7990=bitbucket-server`

:::

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="azure-devops" label="Azure DevOps">

Navigate to [VisualStudio](https://app.vsaex.visualstudio.com/app/register) and register a new application, as explained in the [docs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/integrate/get-started/authentication/oauth?view=azure-devops#1-register-your-app). Set the authorization callback URL and select which scopes to grant. Set the callback URL to `<WGE dashboard URL>/oauth/azuredevops`. 

Select the `Code (read and write)` scope from the list. This is necessary so that WGE can create pull requests on behalf of users. An example of configuring these settings is shown below.

<figure>
<img src={oauthAzureDevOps}/>
<figcaption>Creating a new application</figcaption>
</figure>

After creating your application, you will be presented with the application settings. Take note of the `App ID` and `Client Secret` values—you will use them to configure WGE.

<figure>
<img src={oauthAzureDevOpsSuccess}/>
<figcaption>Application settings</figcaption>
</figure>

In your cluster, create a secret named `git-provider-credentials` that contains the `App ID` and `Client Secret` values from the newly created application.

**Replace values** in this snippet and run:

```bash
kubectl create secret generic git-provider-credentials --namespace=flux-system \
  --from-literal="AZURE_DEVOPS_CLIENT_ID=<App ID value>" \
  --from-literal="AZURE_DEVOPS_CLIENT_SECRET=<Client Secret value>"
```

WGE is now configured to ask users for authorization the next time a pull request must be created as part of using a template. Note that each user can view and manage which applications they have authorized by navigating to https://app.vsaex.visualstudio.com/me.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


## Configure Helm Chart and Commit

We deploy WGE via a Helm chart. We'll save and adapt the below template before committing it in Git to a Flux-reconciled path.

Clone the newly created repo locally. We're gonna add some things!

```bash
git clone git@<provider>:<username>/fleet-infra
cd fleet-infra
```

Download the helm-release to `clusters/management/weave-gitops-enterprise.yaml`.

import ExampleWGE from "../../assets/example-enterprise-helm.yaml";
import ExampleWGEContent from "!!raw-loader!../../assets/example-enterprise-helm.yaml";

<details>
<summary>Expand to see file contents</summary>

<CurlCodeBlock
  localPath="clusters/management/weave-gitops-enterprise.yaml"
  hostedPath={ExampleWGE}
  content={ExampleWGEContent}
/>

</details>

Once you have copied the above file, open and adjust the following configuration
options:

#### `values.config.capi.repositoryURL`
Ensure this has been set to your repository URL.

#### `values.config.capi.repositoryPath`
By default, WGE will create new clusters in the `clusters/management/clusters` path.
You can configure it with `values.config.capi.repositoryPath`.
You might what to change it to `clusters/my-cluster/cluster` if you configured Flux to reconcile `./clusters/my-cluster` instead.

#### `values.config.capi.repositoryClustersPath`
The other important path to configure is where you'll store applications and workloads run on the new cluster.
By default this is `./clusters`. When a new cluster is specified, any selected profiles will be written to `./clusters/{.namespace}/{.clusterName}/profiles.yaml`.
When the new cluster is bootstrapped, Flux will sync the `./clusters/{.namespace}/{.clusterName}` path.

#### (Optional) Install policy agent

[Policy agent](../../policy/intro.mdx) comes packaged with the WGE chart. To install it, set the following values:

- `values.policy-agent.enabled`: set to true to install the agent with WGE
- `values.policy-agent.config.accountId`: organization name, used as identifier
- `values.policy-agent.config.clusterId`: unique identifier for the cluster

Commit and push all the files

```bash
git add clusters/management/weave-gitops-enterprise.yaml
git commit -m "Deploy Weave GitOps Enterprise"
git push
```

Flux will reconcile the helm-release and WGE will be deployed into the cluster. You can check the `flux-system` namespace to verify all pods are running.

## Configure Your Password

To login to the WGE UI, generate a bcrypt hash for your chosen password and store it as a secret in the Kubernetes cluster. There are several different ways to generate a bcrypt hash. Here, we'll use `gitops get bcrypt-hash` from our CLI.

```bash
PASSWORD="<Make up and insert a brand-new password here>"
echo -n $PASSWORD | gitops get bcrypt-hash | kubectl create secret generic cluster-user-auth -n flux-system --from-literal=username=wego-admin --from-file=password=/dev/stdin
```

A validation to know it’s working:

```bash
kubectl get secret -n flux-system cluster-user-auth
```

## Install the Weave GitOps Enterprise CLI Tool

To do this, you can use either brew or curl.

<Tabs groupId="weave-gitops-cli" default="homebrew">
<TabItem value="homebrew" label="Homebrew">

```bash
brew install weaveworks/tap/gitops-ee
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="curl" label="curl">

```bash
curl --silent --location "https://artifacts.wge.dev.weave.works/releases/bin/0.27.0/gitops-$(uname)-$(uname -m).tar.gz" | tar xz -C /tmp
sudo mv /tmp/gitops /usr/local/bin
gitops version
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Next Steps

Here are a couple of options for you to take your next steps with WGE. Explore one option or all of them, in no particular order.

- [Cluster Management](https://docs.gitops.weaveworks.org/docs/next/cluster-management/intro/): We'll show you how to join WGE to a cluster and install an application on that cluster *without* using Cluster API. But if you prefer using Cluster API, our docs cover that too.
- Install the [Terraform Controller](https://weaveworks.github.io/tf-controller/) to reconcile your Terraform resources in a GitOps way. With Flux and the TF Controller, WGE makes it easy to add Terraform templates to your clusters and continuously reconcile any changes made to the Terraform source manifest.
- Install [Policy agent](../../policy/intro.mdx), which comes packaged with the WGE chart.

Commit message:

chore: update references
Updated every import and other URLs referencing the old Weave GitOps
repository.

website/versioned_docs/version-0.28.0/enterprise/getting-started/install-enterprise.mdx, after:

---
title: Install Flux-GUI Enterprise
hide_title: true
pagination_next: enterprise/getting-started/releases-enterprise
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import TierLabel from "@site/docs/_components/TierLabel";
import CurlCodeBlock from "../../_components/CurlCodeBlock";
import oauthBitbucket from '/img/oauth-bitbucket.png';
import oauthAzureDevOps from '/img/oauth-azure-devops.png';
import oauthAzureDevOpsSuccess from '/img/oauth-azure-devops-success.png';

# Install Flux-GUI Enterprise<TierLabel tiers="Enterprise" />

:::info
To purchase an entitlement to Flux-GUI Enterprise, please contact [info@weaveworks.org](mailto:info@weaveworks.org).
:::

Follow the instructions on this page to:

import TOCInline from "@theme/TOCInline";

<TOCInline toc={(() => {
           const trimStart = toc.slice(toc.findIndex((node) => node.id == 'install-weave-gitops-enterprise')+1);
           return trimStart.slice(0, trimStart.findIndex((node) => node.level == '4'));
           })()} />

:::tip
There is no need to install the open source version of Flux-GUI before installing Flux-GUI Enterprise.
:::

## Example: Set up a Management Cluster with CAPA and EKS

To get you started, we'll cover EKS as our management cluster with the CAPA provider. Please note again that Flux-GUI Enterprise supports [clusters without Cluster API](../../cluster-management/managing-clusters-without-capi.mdx), as well as any combination of management cluster and CAPI provider.

### Prep Step: Create a Repository
Create a new private GitHub repository and give it a name. We'll call our repo `fleet-infra`.

Set up a Git client for your private repo. For GitHub, see their docs on [setting your username](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/getting-started-with-git/setting-your-username-in-git#setting-your-git-username-for-every-repository-on-your-computer) and [setting your email address](https://docs.github.com/en/account-and-profile/setting-up-and-managing-your-personal-account-on-github/managing-email-preferences/setting-your-commit-email-address#setting-your-email-address-for-every-repository-on-your-computer).

[Cluster API](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/introduction.html) provides declarative APIs, controllers, and tooling to manage the lifecycle of Kubernetes clusters, across a large number of [infrastructure providers](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/reference/providers.html#infrastructure).
The CAPI custom resource definitions are platform-independent as each provider implementation handles the creation of virtual machines,
VPCs, networks, and other required infrastructure parts, enabling consistent and repeatable cluster deployments.

The following example and steps reflect Flux’s architecture and operations. Go [here](https://fluxcd.io/docs/cmd/) for more detailed documentation about Flux.

### 1. CAPA Setup

Cluster API requires kubectl access to an existing Kubernetes cluster. For this example, configure kubectl to use the management cluster:

```bash
export KUBECONFIG=/path/to/kubeconfig
```

After having configured kubectl, deploy the CAPA components by following the [steps provided by Cluster API documentation](https://cluster-api-aws.sigs.k8s.io/getting-started.html#install-clusterctl).

### 2. Prepare IAM for Installation

Cluster API needs special permissions in AWS. Use the `clusterawsadm` command below to roll out a CloudStack and install the permissions into your AWS account. Although the CloudStack is bound to a region, the resulting permissions are globally scoped. You can use any AWS Region that you have access to. 

The `clusterawsadm` command takes an AWSIAMConfiguration file. [Cluster API docs provide the command](https://cluster-api-aws.sigs.k8s.io/topics/using-clusterawsadm-to-fulfill-prerequisites.html#with-eks-support) for you; run this.

Run the `clusterawsadm` command to create an IAM group:

```bash
clusterawsadm bootstrap iam create-cloudformation-stack --config eks-config.yaml --region $REGION
```

Create an IAM User, which will be used as a kind of service account, and assign the newly created group to this user. The group name will be something like: `cluster-api-provider-aws-s-AWSIAMGroupBootstrapper-XXXX`. 

Create a secret for the newly created IAM user.

### 3. Create the Cluster

In testing, we used the following values:
`$INSTANCESIZE` : t3.large
`$NUMOFNODES` : 2
`$MINNODES` : 2
`$MAXNODES` : 6

```bash
eksctl create cluster -n "$CLUSTERNAME" -r "$REGION" --nodegroup-name workers -t $INSTANCESIZE --nodes $NUMOFNODES --nodes-min $MINNODES --nodes-max $MAXNODES --ssh-access --alb-ingress-access
```

### 4. Add the Cluster to kubeconfig

Once you've created your cluster, add it to your `kubeconfig`:

```bash
aws eks --region "$REGION" update-kubeconfig --name "$CLUSTERNAME"
```

### 5. Install Flux Onto Your Cluster with the `flux bootstrap` Command

The `flux bootstrap` command enables you to deploy Flux on a cluster the GitOps way. Go [here](https://fluxcd.io/docs/cmd/) for more information about the `flux bootstrap` command.

<Tabs groupId="infrastructure" default>
<TabItem value="github" label="GitHub">

```bash
flux bootstrap github \
  --owner=<github username> \
  --repository=fleet-infra \
  --branch=main \
  --path=./clusters/management \
  --personal \
  --components-extra image-reflector-controller,image-automation-controller
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="gitlab" label="GitLab">

```bash
flux bootstrap gitlab \
  --owner=<gitlab username> \
  --repository=fleet-infra \
  --branch=main \
  --path=./clusters/management \
  --personal \
  --components-extra image-reflector-controller,image-automation-controller
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Your private GitHub repo should have a clusters/management folder that includes the manifests Flux needs to operate, and that also generates a key value pair for Flux to access the repo. 

* **owner**: The username (or organization) of the Git repository
* **repository**: Git repository name
* **branch**: Git branch (default "main")
* **path**: Path relative to the repository root; when specified, the cluster sync will be scoped to this path
* **personal**: If set, the owner is assumed to be a repo user
* **components-extra**: Additional controllers to install

At this point your Flux management cluster should be running. Take a look at the repository you created earlier.

### 6. Install CAPA

You do not need to install a CAPI provider to provision Kubernetes clusters using Flux-GUI Enterprise—you can also provision with Terraform. But for this example with CAPA, you must.

Download a specific version of clusterctl from the [releases page](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api/releases). We've tested the example templates provided in this guide with `clusterctl` version `1.1.3`.

Next, run this command:

```bash
export EXP_EKS=true
export EXP_MACHINE_POOL=true
export CAPA_EKS_IAM=true
export EXP_CLUSTER_RESOURCE_SET=true

clusterctl init --infrastructure aws
```

Please note that, while the next few steps apply to our example, they are also relevant whether you're using another CAPI provider or none at all.

## Apply the Entitlements Secret

Contact info@weaveworks.org for a valid entitlements secret. Then apply it to the cluster:

```bash
kubectl apply -f entitlements.yaml
```

## Configure Access for Writing to Git from the Flux-GUI Enterprise UI

Here we provide guidance for GitHub, GitLab, BitBucket Server, and Azure DevOps.

<Tabs groupId="git-provider" default>
<TabItem value="github" label="GitHub">
GitHub requires no additional configuration for OAuth git access
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="gitlab" label="GitLab">

Create a GitLab OAuth application that will request `api` permissions to create pull requests on your behalf.

Follow the [GitLab docs](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/integration/oauth_provider.html).

The application should have at least these scopes:

- `api`
- `openid`
- `email`
- `profile`

Add callback URLs to the application for each address the UI will be exposed on, e.g.:

- `https://localhost:8000/oauth/gitlab` for port-forwarding and testing
- `https://git.example.com/oauth/gitlab` for production use

Save your application, taking note of the **Client ID** and **Client Secret**. Save
them into the `git-provider-credentials` secret, along with:

- `GIT_HOST_TYPES` to tell WGE that the host is gitlab
- `GITLAB_HOSTNAME` where the OAuth app is hosted

**Replace values** in this snippet and run:

```bash
kubectl create secret generic git-provider-credentials --namespace=flux-system \
  --from-literal="GITLAB_CLIENT_ID=13457" \
  --from-literal="GITLAB_CLIENT_SECRET=24680" \
  --from-literal="GITLAB_HOSTNAME=git.example.com" \
  --from-literal="GIT_HOST_TYPES=git.example.com=gitlab"
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="bitbucket-server" label="BitBucket Server">

Create a new [incoming application link](https://confluence.atlassian.com/bitbucketserver/configure-an-incoming-link-1108483657.html) from
the BitBucket administration dashboard. You will be asked to enter a unique name and the redirect URL for the external application. The redirect URL
should be set to `<WGE dashboard URL>/oauth/bitbucketserver`. You will also need to select permissions for the application. The minimum set of
permissions needed for WGE to create pull requests on behalf of users is `Repositories - Write`. An example of configuring these settings is shown below.

<figure>

<img src={oauthBitbucket} width="500"/>

<figcaption>Configuring a new incoming application link</figcaption>
</figure>


Save your application and take note of the **Client ID** and **Client Secret**. Save
them into the `git-provider-credentials` secret, along with:

- `GIT_HOST_TYPES` to tell WGE that the host is bitbucket-server
- `BITBUCKET_SERVER_HOSTNAME` where the OAuth app is hosted

**Replace values** in this snippet and run:

```bash
kubectl create secret generic git-provider-credentials --namespace=flux-system \
  --from-literal="BITBUCKET_SERVER_CLIENT_ID=13457" \
  --from-literal="BITBUCKET_SERVER_CLIENT_SECRET=24680" \
  --from-literal="BITBUCKET_SERVER_HOSTNAME=git.example.com" \
  --from-literal="GIT_HOST_TYPES=git.example.com=bitbucket-server"
```

If the secret is already present, use the following command to update it using your default editor:

```bash
kubectl edit secret generic git-provider-credentials --namespace=flux-system
```

:::info

If BitBucket Server is running on the default port (7990), make sure you include the port number in the values of the secret. For example: `GIT_HOST_TYPES=git.example.com:7990=bitbucket-server`

:::

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="azure-devops" label="Azure DevOps">

Navigate to [VisualStudio](https://app.vsaex.visualstudio.com/app/register) and register a new application, as explained in the [docs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/integrate/get-started/authentication/oauth?view=azure-devops#1-register-your-app). Set the authorization callback URL and select which scopes to grant. Set the callback URL to `<WGE dashboard URL>/oauth/azuredevops`. 

Select the `Code (read and write)` scope from the list. This is necessary so that WGE can create pull requests on behalf of users. An example of configuring these settings is shown below.

<figure>
<img src={oauthAzureDevOps}/>
<figcaption>Creating a new application</figcaption>
</figure>

After creating your application, you will be presented with the application settings. Take note of the `App ID` and `Client Secret` values—you will use them to configure WGE.

<figure>
<img src={oauthAzureDevOpsSuccess}/>
<figcaption>Application settings</figcaption>
</figure>

In your cluster, create a secret named `git-provider-credentials` that contains the `App ID` and `Client Secret` values from the newly created application.

**Replace values** in this snippet and run:

```bash
kubectl create secret generic git-provider-credentials --namespace=flux-system \
  --from-literal="AZURE_DEVOPS_CLIENT_ID=<App ID value>" \
  --from-literal="AZURE_DEVOPS_CLIENT_SECRET=<Client Secret value>"
```

WGE is now configured to ask users for authorization the next time a pull request must be created as part of using a template. Note that each user can view and manage which applications they have authorized by navigating to https://app.vsaex.visualstudio.com/me.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


## Configure Helm Chart and Commit

We deploy WGE via a Helm chart. We'll save and adapt the below template before committing it in Git to a Flux-reconciled path.

Clone the newly created repo locally. We're gonna add some things!

```bash
git clone git@<provider>:<username>/fleet-infra
cd fleet-infra
```

Download the helm-release to `clusters/management/weave-gitops-enterprise.yaml`.

import ExampleWGE from "../../assets/example-enterprise-helm.yaml";
import ExampleWGEContent from "!!raw-loader!../../assets/example-enterprise-helm.yaml";

<details>
<summary>Expand to see file contents</summary>

<CurlCodeBlock
  localPath="clusters/management/weave-gitops-enterprise.yaml"
  hostedPath={ExampleWGE}
  content={ExampleWGEContent}
/>

</details>

Once you have copied the above file, open and adjust the following configuration
options:

#### `values.config.capi.repositoryURL`
Ensure this has been set to your repository URL.

#### `values.config.capi.repositoryPath`
By default, WGE will create new clusters in the `clusters/management/clusters` path.
You can configure it with `values.config.capi.repositoryPath`.
You might what to change it to `clusters/my-cluster/cluster` if you configured Flux to reconcile `./clusters/my-cluster` instead.

#### `values.config.capi.repositoryClustersPath`
The other important path to configure is where you'll store applications and workloads run on the new cluster.
By default this is `./clusters`. When a new cluster is specified, any selected profiles will be written to `./clusters/{.namespace}/{.clusterName}/profiles.yaml`.
When the new cluster is bootstrapped, Flux will sync the `./clusters/{.namespace}/{.clusterName}` path.

#### (Optional) Install policy agent

[Policy agent](../../policy/intro.mdx) comes packaged with the WGE chart. To install it, set the following values:

- `values.policy-agent.enabled`: set to true to install the agent with WGE
- `values.policy-agent.config.accountId`: organization name, used as identifier
- `values.policy-agent.config.clusterId`: unique identifier for the cluster

Commit and push all the files

```bash
git add clusters/management/weave-gitops-enterprise.yaml
git commit -m "Deploy Flux-GUI Enterprise"
git push
```

Flux will reconcile the helm-release and WGE will be deployed into the cluster. You can check the `flux-system` namespace to verify all pods are running.

## Configure Your Password

To login to the WGE UI, generate a bcrypt hash for your chosen password and store it as a secret in the Kubernetes cluster. There are several different ways to generate a bcrypt hash. Here, we'll use `gitops get bcrypt-hash` from our CLI.

```bash
PASSWORD="<Make up and insert a brand-new password here>"
echo -n $PASSWORD | gitops get bcrypt-hash | kubectl create secret generic cluster-user-auth -n flux-system --from-literal=username=wego-admin --from-file=password=/dev/stdin
```

A validation to know it’s working:

```bash
kubectl get secret -n flux-system cluster-user-auth
```

## Install the Flux-GUI Enterprise CLI Tool

To do this, you can use either brew or curl.

<Tabs groupId="weave-gitops-cli" default="homebrew">
<TabItem value="homebrew" label="Homebrew">

```bash
brew install weaveworks/tap/gitops-ee
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="curl" label="curl">

```bash
curl --silent --location "https://artifacts.wge.dev.weave.works/releases/bin/0.27.0/gitops-$(uname)-$(uname -m).tar.gz" | tar xz -C /tmp
sudo mv /tmp/gitops /usr/local/bin
gitops version
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Next Steps

Here are a couple of options for you to take your next steps with WGE. Explore one option or all of them, in no particular order.

- [Cluster Management](https://docs.gitops.weaveworks.org/docs/next/cluster-management/intro/): We'll show you how to join WGE to a cluster and install an application on that cluster *without* using Cluster API. But if you prefer using Cluster API, our docs cover that too.
- Install the [Terraform Controller](https://weaveworks.github.io/tf-controller/) to reconcile your Terraform resources in a GitOps way. With Flux and the TF Controller, WGE makes it easy to add Terraform templates to your clusters and continuously reconcile any changes made to the Terraform source manifest.
- Install [Policy agent](../../policy/intro.mdx), which comes packaged with the WGE chart.
