website/versioned_docs/version-0.20.0/installation/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Installation
hide_title: true
---

# Part 0: Installing Weave GitOps

## Check your Cluster's Kubernetes Version

No matter which version of Weave GitOps you install, having a Kubernetes cluster up
and running is required. This version of Weave GitOps is tested against the following
[Kubernetes releases](https://kubernetes.io/releases/):

| Kubernetes Release | End of Life |
| ------------------ | ----------- |
| 1.25               | 2023-10-27  |
| 1.24               | 2023-07-28  |
| 1.23               | 2023-02-28  |
| 1.22               | 2022-10-28  |

Note that the version of [Flux](https://fluxcd.io/docs/installation/#prerequisites) that you use might impose further minimum version requirements.

## Deploy Weave GitOps to your Cluster

Depending on your setup and requirement you have the following choice

| Installation                                           |
| ------------------------------------------------------ |
| [Weave GitOps OSS](weave-gitops.mdx)                       |
| [Weave GitOps Enterprise](weave-gitops-enterprise) |
| [Weave GitOps Enterprise - Airgap Environments](weave-gitops-enterprise/airgap) |
| [AWS Marketplace](aws-marketplace.mdx)                 |

Commit message:

chore: update references
Updated every import and other URLs referencing the old Weave GitOps
repository.

website/versioned_docs/version-0.20.0/installation/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Installation
hide_title: true
---

# Part 0: Installing Flux-GUI

## Check your Cluster's Kubernetes Version

No matter which version of Flux-GUI you install, having a Kubernetes cluster up
and running is required. This version of Flux-GUI is tested against the following
[Kubernetes releases](https://kubernetes.io/releases/):

| Kubernetes Release | End of Life |
| ------------------ | ----------- |
| 1.25               | 2023-10-27  |
| 1.24               | 2023-07-28  |
| 1.23               | 2023-02-28  |
| 1.22               | 2022-10-28  |

Note that the version of [Flux](https://fluxcd.io/docs/installation/#prerequisites) that you use might impose further minimum version requirements.

## Deploy Flux-GUI to your Cluster

Depending on your setup and requirement you have the following choice

| Installation                                           |
| ------------------------------------------------------ |
| [Flux-GUI OSS](weave-gitops.mdx)                       |
| [Flux-GUI Enterprise](weave-gitops-enterprise) |
| [Flux-GUI Enterprise - Airgap Environments](weave-gitops-enterprise/airgap) |
| [AWS Marketplace](aws-marketplace.mdx)                 |
