website/versioned_docs/version-0.20.0/configuration/recommended-rbac-configuration.mdx, before:

---
title: Recommended RBAC Configuration
---

This page summarises the contents of the [securing access to the dashboard](securing-access-to-the-dashboard.mdx),
[service account permissions](service-account-permissions.mdx) and [user permissions](user-permissions.mdx). They should be
read in addition to this page in order to understand the suggestions made here and
their ramifications.

This page is purposefully vague as the intention is to give a broad idea of how
such a system could be implemented, not the specifics as that will be dependent
on your specific circumstances and goals.

## Summary

The general recommendation is to use OIDC and a small number of groups that
Weave GitOps can impersonate.

OIDC is the recommended method for managing authentication as it decouples the
need to manage user lists from the application, allowing it to be managed via
a central system designed for that purpose (i.e. the OIDC provider). OIDC also
enables the creation of groups (either via your provider's own systems or by
using a connector like [Dex](../guides/setting-up-dex.md)).

Configuring Weave GitOps to impersonate kubernetes groups rather than
users has the following benefits:
* A user's permissions for impersonation by Weave GitOps can be separate from
  any other permissions that they may or may not have within the cluster.
* Users do not have to be individually managed within the cluster and can have
  their permissions managed together.

## Example set up

Assume that your company has the following people in OIDC
* Aisha, a cluster admin, who should have full admin access to Weave GitOps
* Brian, lead of team-A, who should have admin permissions to their team's
  namespace in Weave GitOps and readonly otherwise
* June and Jo, developers in team-A who should have read-only access to Weave GitOps

You could then create 3 groups:

* `wego-admin`
  - Bound to the `ClusterRole`, created by Helm, `wego-admin-cluster-role`
  - Aisha is the only member
* `wego-team-a-admin`
  - Bound to a `Role`, using the same permissions as `wego-admin-role`, created
    in Team's namespace
  - Brian and Aisha are members
* `wego-readonly`
  - Bound to a `ClusterRole` that matches `wego-admin-cluster-role` but with
    no `patch` permissions.
  - Aisha, Brian, June & Jo are all members

The Weave GitOps service account can then be configured with:
```yaml
rbac:
  impersonationResourceNames: ["wego-admin", "wego-team-a-admin", "wego-readonly"]
  impersonationResources: ["groups"]
```
so that only these three groups can be `impersonated` by the service account.

:::caution Using OIDC for cluster and Weave GitOps Authentication
If the same OIDC provider is used to authenticate a user with the cluster
itself (e.g. for use with `kubectl`) and to Weave GitOps then, depending
on OIDC configuration, they may end up with the super-set of their permissions
from Weave GitOps and any other permissions granted to them.

This can lead to un-intended consequences (e.g. viewing `secrets`). To avoid
this OIDC providers will often let you configure which groups are returned
to which clients: the Weave GitOps groups should not be returned to the
cluster client (and vice versa).
:::

### Code

The yaml to configure these permissions would look roughly like:

<details>
<summary>Expand to see example RBAC</summary>

```yaml
# Admin cluster role
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: wego-admin-cluster-role
rules:
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["secrets", "pods" ]
    verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
  - apiGroups: ["apps"]
    resources: [ "deployments", "replicasets"]
    verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
  - apiGroups: ["kustomize.toolkit.fluxcd.io"]
    resources: [ "kustomizations" ]
    verbs: [ "get", "list", "patch" ]
  - apiGroups: ["helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io"]
    resources: [ "helmreleases" ]
    verbs: [ "get", "list", "patch" ]
  - apiGroups: ["source.toolkit.fluxcd.io"]
    resources: [ "buckets", "helmcharts", "gitrepositories", "helmrepositories", "ocirepositories" ]
    verbs: [ "get", "list", "patch" ]
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["events"]
    verbs: ["get", "watch", "list"]
---
# Read only cluster role
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: wego-readonly-role
rules:
  # All the 'patch' permissions have been removed
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["secrets", "pods" ]
    verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
  - apiGroups: ["apps"]
    resources: [ "deployments", "replicasets"]
    verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
  - apiGroups: ["kustomize.toolkit.fluxcd.io"]
    resources: [ "kustomizations" ]
    verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
  - apiGroups: ["helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io"]
    resources: [ "helmreleases" ]
    verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
  - apiGroups: ["source.toolkit.fluxcd.io"]
    resources: [ "buckets", "helmcharts", "gitrepositories", "helmrepositories", "ocirepositories" ]
    verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["events"]
    verbs: ["get", "watch", "list"]
---
# Bind the cluster admin role to the wego-admin group
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: wego-cluster-admin
subjects:
- kind: Group
  name: wego-admin # only Aisha is a member
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
roleRef:
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: wego-admin-cluster-role
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
---
# Bind the admin role in the team-a namespace for the wego-team-a-admin group
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: wego-team-a-admin-role
  namespace: team-a
subjects:
- kind: Group
  name: wego-team-a-admin # Aisha & Brian are members
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
roleRef:
  # Use the cluster role to set rules, just bind them in the team-a namespace
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: wego-admin-role
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
---
# Bind the readonly role to the readonly group
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: wego-readonly-role
subjects:
- kind: Group
  name: wego-readonly # Everyone is a member
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
roleRef:
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: wego-readonly-role
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
---
```

</details>

Commit message:

chore: update references
Updated every import and other URLs referencing the old Weave GitOps
repository.

website/versioned_docs/version-0.20.0/configuration/recommended-rbac-configuration.mdx, after:

---
title: Recommended RBAC Configuration
---

This page summarises the contents of the [securing access to the dashboard](securing-access-to-the-dashboard.mdx),
[service account permissions](service-account-permissions.mdx) and [user permissions](user-permissions.mdx). They should be
read in addition to this page in order to understand the suggestions made here and
their ramifications.

This page is purposefully vague as the intention is to give a broad idea of how
such a system could be implemented, not the specifics as that will be dependent
on your specific circumstances and goals.

## Summary

The general recommendation is to use OIDC and a small number of groups that
Flux-GUI can impersonate.

OIDC is the recommended method for managing authentication as it decouples the
need to manage user lists from the application, allowing it to be managed via
a central system designed for that purpose (i.e. the OIDC provider). OIDC also
enables the creation of groups (either via your provider's own systems or by
using a connector like [Dex](../guides/setting-up-dex.md)).

Configuring Flux-GUI to impersonate kubernetes groups rather than
users has the following benefits:
* A user's permissions for impersonation by Flux-GUI can be separate from
  any other permissions that they may or may not have within the cluster.
* Users do not have to be individually managed within the cluster and can have
  their permissions managed together.

## Example set up

Assume that your company has the following people in OIDC
* Aisha, a cluster admin, who should have full admin access to Flux-GUI
* Brian, lead of team-A, who should have admin permissions to their team's
  namespace in Flux-GUI and readonly otherwise
* June and Jo, developers in team-A who should have read-only access to Flux-GUI

You could then create 3 groups:

* `wego-admin`
  - Bound to the `ClusterRole`, created by Helm, `wego-admin-cluster-role`
  - Aisha is the only member
* `wego-team-a-admin`
  - Bound to a `Role`, using the same permissions as `wego-admin-role`, created
    in Team's namespace
  - Brian and Aisha are members
* `wego-readonly`
  - Bound to a `ClusterRole` that matches `wego-admin-cluster-role` but with
    no `patch` permissions.
  - Aisha, Brian, June & Jo are all members

The Flux-GUI service account can then be configured with:
```yaml
rbac:
  impersonationResourceNames: ["wego-admin", "wego-team-a-admin", "wego-readonly"]
  impersonationResources: ["groups"]
```
so that only these three groups can be `impersonated` by the service account.

:::caution Using OIDC for cluster and Flux-GUI Authentication
If the same OIDC provider is used to authenticate a user with the cluster
itself (e.g. for use with `kubectl`) and to Flux-GUI then, depending
on OIDC configuration, they may end up with the super-set of their permissions
from Flux-GUI and any other permissions granted to them.

This can lead to un-intended consequences (e.g. viewing `secrets`). To avoid
this OIDC providers will often let you configure which groups are returned
to which clients: the Flux-GUI groups should not be returned to the
cluster client (and vice versa).
:::

### Code

The yaml to configure these permissions would look roughly like:

<details>
<summary>Expand to see example RBAC</summary>

```yaml
# Admin cluster role
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: wego-admin-cluster-role
rules:
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["secrets", "pods" ]
    verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
  - apiGroups: ["apps"]
    resources: [ "deployments", "replicasets"]
    verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
  - apiGroups: ["kustomize.toolkit.fluxcd.io"]
    resources: [ "kustomizations" ]
    verbs: [ "get", "list", "patch" ]
  - apiGroups: ["helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io"]
    resources: [ "helmreleases" ]
    verbs: [ "get", "list", "patch" ]
  - apiGroups: ["source.toolkit.fluxcd.io"]
    resources: [ "buckets", "helmcharts", "gitrepositories", "helmrepositories", "ocirepositories" ]
    verbs: [ "get", "list", "patch" ]
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["events"]
    verbs: ["get", "watch", "list"]
---
# Read only cluster role
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: wego-readonly-role
rules:
  # All the 'patch' permissions have been removed
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["secrets", "pods" ]
    verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
  - apiGroups: ["apps"]
    resources: [ "deployments", "replicasets"]
    verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
  - apiGroups: ["kustomize.toolkit.fluxcd.io"]
    resources: [ "kustomizations" ]
    verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
  - apiGroups: ["helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io"]
    resources: [ "helmreleases" ]
    verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
  - apiGroups: ["source.toolkit.fluxcd.io"]
    resources: [ "buckets", "helmcharts", "gitrepositories", "helmrepositories", "ocirepositories" ]
    verbs: [ "get", "list" ]
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["events"]
    verbs: ["get", "watch", "list"]
---
# Bind the cluster admin role to the wego-admin group
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: wego-cluster-admin
subjects:
- kind: Group
  name: wego-admin # only Aisha is a member
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
roleRef:
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: wego-admin-cluster-role
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
---
# Bind the admin role in the team-a namespace for the wego-team-a-admin group
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: wego-team-a-admin-role
  namespace: team-a
subjects:
- kind: Group
  name: wego-team-a-admin # Aisha & Brian are members
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
roleRef:
  # Use the cluster role to set rules, just bind them in the team-a namespace
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: wego-admin-role
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
---
# Bind the readonly role to the readonly group
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: wego-readonly-role
subjects:
- kind: Group
  name: wego-readonly # Everyone is a member
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
roleRef:
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: wego-readonly-role
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
---
```

</details>
