website/versioned_docs/version-0.21.1/references/cli-reference/gitops_remove.md, before:

## gitops remove

Remove various components of Weave GitOps

### Options

```
  -h, --help   help for remove
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
  -e, --endpoint WEAVE_GITOPS_ENTERPRISE_API_URL   The Weave GitOps Enterprise HTTP API endpoint can be set with WEAVE_GITOPS_ENTERPRISE_API_URL environment variable
      --insecure-skip-tls-verify                   If true, the server's certificate will not be checked for validity. This will make your HTTPS connections insecure
      --kubeconfig string                          Paths to a kubeconfig. Only required if out-of-cluster.
  -n, --namespace string                           The namespace scope for this operation (default "flux-system")
  -p, --password WEAVE_GITOPS_PASSWORD             The Weave GitOps Enterprise password for authentication can be set with WEAVE_GITOPS_PASSWORD environment variable
  -u, --username WEAVE_GITOPS_USERNAME             The Weave GitOps Enterprise username for authentication can be set with WEAVE_GITOPS_USERNAME environment variable
```

### SEE ALSO

* [gitops](gitops.md)	 - Weave GitOps
* [gitops remove run](gitops_remove_run.md)	 - Remove GitOps Run sessions

###### Auto generated by spf13/cobra on 12-Apr-2023

Commit message:

chore: update references
Updated every import and other URLs referencing the old Weave GitOps
repository.

website/versioned_docs/version-0.21.1/references/cli-reference/gitops_remove.md, after:

## gitops remove

Remove various components of Flux-GUI

### Options

```
  -h, --help   help for remove
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
  -e, --endpoint WEAVE_GITOPS_ENTERPRISE_API_URL   The Flux-GUI Enterprise HTTP API endpoint can be set with WEAVE_GITOPS_ENTERPRISE_API_URL environment variable
      --insecure-skip-tls-verify                   If true, the server's certificate will not be checked for validity. This will make your HTTPS connections insecure
      --kubeconfig string                          Paths to a kubeconfig. Only required if out-of-cluster.
  -n, --namespace string                           The namespace scope for this operation (default "flux-system")
  -p, --password WEAVE_GITOPS_PASSWORD             The Flux-GUI Enterprise password for authentication can be set with WEAVE_GITOPS_PASSWORD environment variable
  -u, --username WEAVE_GITOPS_USERNAME             The Flux-GUI Enterprise username for authentication can be set with WEAVE_GITOPS_USERNAME environment variable
```

### SEE ALSO

* [gitops](gitops.md)	 - Flux-GUI
* [gitops remove run](gitops_remove_run.md)	 - Remove GitOps Run sessions

###### Auto generated by spf13/cobra on 12-Apr-2023
