website/versioned_docs/version-0.38.0/guides/configuring-oidc-with-keycloak.mdx, before:

---
title: Configuring OIDC with Keycloak
---

In this guide we will show you how to enable users to login to the Weave GitOps dashboard by authenticating them against a Keycloak instance.

This example uses [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/) and assumes Weave GitOps has already been installed on the Kubernetes Cluster.

## Pre-requisites

- A Kubernetes cluster
- Weave GitOps is [installed](../../intro-weave-gitops/#getting-started) and [TLS has been enabled](../../enterprise/getting-started/install-enterprise/#tls-configuration)
- Access to a running Keycloak installation

## Configuring a new Keycloak Realm

The first step is to create a new realm in Keycloak for our applications.

![Creating a new Realm in Keycloak step 1](img/kc_step_01.png)

To do that, navigate to your keycloak admin console and:

1. In the top left menu, select the realm dropdown
2. Click on the `Create Realm` button


![Creating a new Realm in Keycloak step 2](img/kc_step_02.png)

In the new window, fill in a name for your realm and then click on `Create`. In this guide, the realm will be named `demo`.

### Creating a new Keycloak Client

You should now have a new realm created. Now onto creating the client.

![Keycloak realm homepage](img/kc_step_03.png)

From the Keycloak admin console, make sure the new realm is selected in the top-left dropdown, and click on the `Clients` tab in the left menu.

![Keycloak realm clients list](img/kc_step_04.png)

Click on the `Create client` button at the top of the clients list.

![Keycloak create client step 1](img/kc_step_05.png)

In the `General Settings` pane:

1. Make sure that the client type is set to `OpenID Connect`
1. Set the `clientID` for your client to `weave-gitops`
1. Give your client a suggestive name
1. Click on the `Next` button.

![Keycloak create client step 2](img/kc_step_06.png)

In the `Capability config` pane:

1. Make sure `Client authentication` is turned on
1. Make sure `Standard flow` is turned on
1. Make sure `Direct access grants` is turned on
1. Click on the `Next` button.

![Keycloak create client step 3](img/kc_step_07.png)

Finally, in the `Login settings` pane:

1. Set the `Home URL` for your client to the URL of your Weave GitOps instance. For this demo, that's `https://WEAVE_GITOPS_URL`
1. Set the `Valid redirect URIs` to the URL of your Weave GitOps instance followed by `/oauth2/callback`. For this demo, that's `https://WEAVE_GITOPS_URL/oauth2/callback`
1. Click on `Save`

### Creating the Groups Mapper for the Keycloak Client

You should now have an OIDC client created in your realm.

![Keycloak new client page](img/kc_step_08.png)

From the `Clients` page, click on your newly created client.

![Keycloak client scopes](img/kc_step_09.png)

1. In the top menu, select the `Client scopes` tab
1. From the list of client scopes, select the `<client-name>-dedicated` scope. For this demo, that's `weave-gitops-dedicated`

![Keycloak create new mapper step 1](img/kc_step_10.png)

In the new window, you should see that there are no mappers configured. Click on the `Configure a new mapper` button.

![Keycloak create new mapper step 2](img/kc_step_11.png)

In the dialog that pops up, scroll down until you see `User Client Role` and select it.

![Keycloak create new mapper step 3](img/kc_step_12.png)

In the new window that opens up:

1. Set the `Name` of your mapper to `groups`
1. Select your client in the `Client ID` drop-down
1. Set the `Token Claim Name` to groups
1. Make sure the other settings match the ones in the screenshot above and click on `Save`

![Keycloak new mapper in list](img/kc_step_13.png)

You should now be able to see your new mapper in the list.

### Creating the Client Roles

Once your client and your mapper are created, it's time to create some roles.

![Keycloak create client role step 1](img/kc_step_14.png)

Navigate back to your client page and select the `Roles` tab in the top menu. It should say that there are currently no roles configured for this client. Click on `Create role`

![Keycloak create client role step 2](img/kc_step_15.png)

In the new window that is opened:

1. Fill in your role name to `wego-admin`
2. Click on `Save`

![Keycloak create client role step 3](img/kc_step_16.png)

You should now be able to see your new role configured.

### Obtaining the client secret

Now that everything is configured, we need to grab the client secret from Keycloak in order to configure OIDC for Weave GitOps.

![Keycloak new mapper in list](img/kc_step_17.png)

Navigate back to your client page and select the `Credentials` tab in the top menu. Copy the `Client secret` value and save it for later.

### Creating a demo user

Since this demo does not cover setting up the LDAP or AD integration for Keycloak, we need to create a demo user to validate our config.

![Keycloak create user step 1](img/kc_step_18.png)

Navigate back to the realm homepage in your Keycloak Admin console, and:

1. Select the `Users` tab in the left menu
2. Click on the `Add user` button

![Keycloak create user step 2](img/kc_step_19.png)

In the new page that opens up, fill in the details of a demo user and click on `Create`.

![Keycloak create user step 3](img/kc_step_20.png)

Once the user is created, we need to set a password. To do that:

1. Navigate to the `Credentials` tab in the top menu
2. Click on the `Set password` button

![Keycloak create user step 4](img/kc_step_21.png)

In the dialog that opens up, set a password for your user, confirm it, optionally mark it as not-temporary and click on `Save`.

![Keycloak create user step 5](img/kc_step_22.png)

You should now see a password configured for your user.

![Keycloak create user step 6](img/kc_step_23.png)

Now we need to assign the `wego-admin` role we created earlier to our user. To do that:

1. Navigate to the `Role mapping` tab in the top menu
2. Click on the `Assign role` button

![Keycloak create user step 7](img/kc_step_24.png)

In the dialog that opens up:

1. Select the `Filter by clients` option in the dropdown
2. Type in your client name in the search bar
3. Tick the checkbox next to the role
4. Click on `Assign`

![Keycloak create user step 8](img/kc_step_25.png)

The role should now appear in the `Role mapping` section and our user should be fully configured.

## Configuring Weave GitOps to use our new Keycloak Client

Now that our Keycloak configuration is done, it's time to link our Weave GitOps deployment to it.

### Creating the `oidc-auth` secret

To configure Weave GitOps for OIDC authentication via Keycloak, we need to configure the `oidc-auth` secret. We need to set:

- the `issuerURL` to the URL of our keycloak instance, followed by `/realms/<realm_name>`
- the `redirectURL` to the URL of our Weave GitOps instance, followed by `/oauth2/callback`
- the `clientID` to the id of the client we created in the previous steps
- the `clientSecret` to the secret we copied a few steps ago
- the `customScopes` to `email`
- the `claimGroups` to `groups` to work with our mapper, mapping from roles->groups
- the `claimUsername` to `sub`

<details>
<summary>Expand to see secret definition </summary>

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
    name: oidc-auth
stringData:
    issuerURL: https://auth.mydomain.com/keycloak/realms/demo
    redirectURL: https://gitops.mydomain.com/oauth2/callback
    clientID: weave-gitops
    clientSecret: N8jDkMdghg38jiw52VHeTH1V7WUmM1tv
    customScopes: email
    claimGroups: groups
    claimUsername: sub
```

</details>

After this secret is created, you may need to delete the Weave GitOps pods in order to restart the app and load the new config.

### Setting up RBAC

Once Weave GitOps is configured for OIDC, we need a way to map permissions to the groups. To do that, we need to create role bindings for our `wego-admin` group.
The following example assumes that the ClusterRole `wego-admin-cluster-role` and the namespaced Role `wego-admin-role` already exist. It will grant everyone
in the `wego-admin` group within Keycloak admin access. See the [recommendations on setting up RBAC](../../enterprise/getting-started/install-enterprise/#recommended-rbac-configuration)
for details.

<details>
<summary>Expand to see group role bindings</summary>

```yaml
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: keycloak-wego-admin
subjects:
  - kind: Group
    name: wego-admin
    apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
roleRef:
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: wego-admin-cluster-role
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
```

</details>

## Testing the configuration

Now that everything is set up, let's test our configuration.

![Test config step 1](img/kc_step_26.png)

Navigate to your Weave GitOps dashboard URL and click on the `Login With Keycloak` button. You should be redirected to a Keycloak Login page.

![Test config step 2](img/kc_step_27.png)

In the page that opens up, input your demo user credentials and click on `Sign In`.

![Test config step 3](img/kc_step_28.png)

You should now be redirected back to Weave GitOps and, thanks to the RBAC configuration, you should now see all of the configured applications.

Commit message:

chore: update references
Updated every import and other URLs referencing the old Weave GitOps
repository.

website/versioned_docs/version-0.38.0/guides/configuring-oidc-with-keycloak.mdx, after:

---
title: Configuring OIDC with Keycloak
---

In this guide we will show you how to enable users to login to the Flux-GUI dashboard by authenticating them against a Keycloak instance.

This example uses [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/) and assumes Flux-GUI has already been installed on the Kubernetes Cluster.

## Pre-requisites

- A Kubernetes cluster
- Flux-GUI is [installed](../../intro-weave-gitops/#getting-started) and [TLS has been enabled](../../enterprise/getting-started/install-enterprise/#tls-configuration)
- Access to a running Keycloak installation

## Configuring a new Keycloak Realm

The first step is to create a new realm in Keycloak for our applications.

![Creating a new Realm in Keycloak step 1](img/kc_step_01.png)

To do that, navigate to your keycloak admin console and:

1. In the top left menu, select the realm dropdown
2. Click on the `Create Realm` button


![Creating a new Realm in Keycloak step 2](img/kc_step_02.png)

In the new window, fill in a name for your realm and then click on `Create`. In this guide, the realm will be named `demo`.

### Creating a new Keycloak Client

You should now have a new realm created. Now onto creating the client.

![Keycloak realm homepage](img/kc_step_03.png)

From the Keycloak admin console, make sure the new realm is selected in the top-left dropdown, and click on the `Clients` tab in the left menu.

![Keycloak realm clients list](img/kc_step_04.png)

Click on the `Create client` button at the top of the clients list.

![Keycloak create client step 1](img/kc_step_05.png)

In the `General Settings` pane:

1. Make sure that the client type is set to `OpenID Connect`
1. Set the `clientID` for your client to `weave-gitops`
1. Give your client a suggestive name
1. Click on the `Next` button.

![Keycloak create client step 2](img/kc_step_06.png)

In the `Capability config` pane:

1. Make sure `Client authentication` is turned on
1. Make sure `Standard flow` is turned on
1. Make sure `Direct access grants` is turned on
1. Click on the `Next` button.

![Keycloak create client step 3](img/kc_step_07.png)

Finally, in the `Login settings` pane:

1. Set the `Home URL` for your client to the URL of your Flux-GUI instance. For this demo, that's `https://WEAVE_GITOPS_URL`
1. Set the `Valid redirect URIs` to the URL of your Flux-GUI instance followed by `/oauth2/callback`. For this demo, that's `https://WEAVE_GITOPS_URL/oauth2/callback`
1. Click on `Save`

### Creating the Groups Mapper for the Keycloak Client

You should now have an OIDC client created in your realm.

![Keycloak new client page](img/kc_step_08.png)

From the `Clients` page, click on your newly created client.

![Keycloak client scopes](img/kc_step_09.png)

1. In the top menu, select the `Client scopes` tab
1. From the list of client scopes, select the `<client-name>-dedicated` scope. For this demo, that's `weave-gitops-dedicated`

![Keycloak create new mapper step 1](img/kc_step_10.png)

In the new window, you should see that there are no mappers configured. Click on the `Configure a new mapper` button.

![Keycloak create new mapper step 2](img/kc_step_11.png)

In the dialog that pops up, scroll down until you see `User Client Role` and select it.

![Keycloak create new mapper step 3](img/kc_step_12.png)

In the new window that opens up:

1. Set the `Name` of your mapper to `groups`
1. Select your client in the `Client ID` drop-down
1. Set the `Token Claim Name` to groups
1. Make sure the other settings match the ones in the screenshot above and click on `Save`

![Keycloak new mapper in list](img/kc_step_13.png)

You should now be able to see your new mapper in the list.

### Creating the Client Roles

Once your client and your mapper are created, it's time to create some roles.

![Keycloak create client role step 1](img/kc_step_14.png)

Navigate back to your client page and select the `Roles` tab in the top menu. It should say that there are currently no roles configured for this client. Click on `Create role`

![Keycloak create client role step 2](img/kc_step_15.png)

In the new window that is opened:

1. Fill in your role name to `wego-admin`
2. Click on `Save`

![Keycloak create client role step 3](img/kc_step_16.png)

You should now be able to see your new role configured.

### Obtaining the client secret

Now that everything is configured, we need to grab the client secret from Keycloak in order to configure OIDC for Flux-GUI.

![Keycloak new mapper in list](img/kc_step_17.png)

Navigate back to your client page and select the `Credentials` tab in the top menu. Copy the `Client secret` value and save it for later.

### Creating a demo user

Since this demo does not cover setting up the LDAP or AD integration for Keycloak, we need to create a demo user to validate our config.

![Keycloak create user step 1](img/kc_step_18.png)

Navigate back to the realm homepage in your Keycloak Admin console, and:

1. Select the `Users` tab in the left menu
2. Click on the `Add user` button

![Keycloak create user step 2](img/kc_step_19.png)

In the new page that opens up, fill in the details of a demo user and click on `Create`.

![Keycloak create user step 3](img/kc_step_20.png)

Once the user is created, we need to set a password. To do that:

1. Navigate to the `Credentials` tab in the top menu
2. Click on the `Set password` button

![Keycloak create user step 4](img/kc_step_21.png)

In the dialog that opens up, set a password for your user, confirm it, optionally mark it as not-temporary and click on `Save`.

![Keycloak create user step 5](img/kc_step_22.png)

You should now see a password configured for your user.

![Keycloak create user step 6](img/kc_step_23.png)

Now we need to assign the `wego-admin` role we created earlier to our user. To do that:

1. Navigate to the `Role mapping` tab in the top menu
2. Click on the `Assign role` button

![Keycloak create user step 7](img/kc_step_24.png)

In the dialog that opens up:

1. Select the `Filter by clients` option in the dropdown
2. Type in your client name in the search bar
3. Tick the checkbox next to the role
4. Click on `Assign`

![Keycloak create user step 8](img/kc_step_25.png)

The role should now appear in the `Role mapping` section and our user should be fully configured.

## Configuring Flux-GUI to use our new Keycloak Client

Now that our Keycloak configuration is done, it's time to link our Flux-GUI deployment to it.

### Creating the `oidc-auth` secret

To configure Flux-GUI for OIDC authentication via Keycloak, we need to configure the `oidc-auth` secret. We need to set:

- the `issuerURL` to the URL of our keycloak instance, followed by `/realms/<realm_name>`
- the `redirectURL` to the URL of our Flux-GUI instance, followed by `/oauth2/callback`
- the `clientID` to the id of the client we created in the previous steps
- the `clientSecret` to the secret we copied a few steps ago
- the `customScopes` to `email`
- the `claimGroups` to `groups` to work with our mapper, mapping from roles->groups
- the `claimUsername` to `sub`

<details>
<summary>Expand to see secret definition </summary>

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
    name: oidc-auth
stringData:
    issuerURL: https://auth.mydomain.com/keycloak/realms/demo
    redirectURL: https://gitops.mydomain.com/oauth2/callback
    clientID: weave-gitops
    clientSecret: N8jDkMdghg38jiw52VHeTH1V7WUmM1tv
    customScopes: email
    claimGroups: groups
    claimUsername: sub
```

</details>

After this secret is created, you may need to delete the Flux-GUI pods in order to restart the app and load the new config.

### Setting up RBAC

Once Flux-GUI is configured for OIDC, we need a way to map permissions to the groups. To do that, we need to create role bindings for our `wego-admin` group.
The following example assumes that the ClusterRole `wego-admin-cluster-role` and the namespaced Role `wego-admin-role` already exist. It will grant everyone
in the `wego-admin` group within Keycloak admin access. See the [recommendations on setting up RBAC](../../enterprise/getting-started/install-enterprise/#recommended-rbac-configuration)
for details.

<details>
<summary>Expand to see group role bindings</summary>

```yaml
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: keycloak-wego-admin
subjects:
  - kind: Group
    name: wego-admin
    apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
roleRef:
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: wego-admin-cluster-role
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
```

</details>

## Testing the configuration

Now that everything is set up, let's test our configuration.

![Test config step 1](img/kc_step_26.png)

Navigate to your Flux-GUI dashboard URL and click on the `Login With Keycloak` button. You should be redirected to a Keycloak Login page.

![Test config step 2](img/kc_step_27.png)

In the page that opens up, input your demo user credentials and click on `Sign In`.

![Test config step 3](img/kc_step_28.png)

You should now be redirected back to Flux-GUI and, thanks to the RBAC configuration, you should now see all of the configured applications.
