website/versioned_docs/version-0.16.0/installation/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Installation
hide_title: true
---

## Installing Weave GitOps

### Pre-requisites

#### Kubernetes Cluster

No matter which version of Weave GitOps you install, having a Kubernetes cluster up
and running is required. This version of Weave GitOps is tested against the following
[Kubernetes releases](https://kubernetes.io/releases/):

| Kubernetes Release | End of Life |
| ------------------ | ----------- |
| 1.25               | 2023-10-27  |
| 1.24               | 2023-07-28  |
| 1.23               | 2023-02-28  |
| 1.22               | 2022-10-28  |

Note that the version of [Flux](https://fluxcd.io/docs/installation/#prerequisites) that you use might impose further minimum version requirements.

### Installing Weave GitOps itself

Depending on your setup and requirement you have the following choice

| Installation                                           |
| ------------------------------------------------------ |
| [Weave GitOps](weave-gitops.mdx)                       |
| [Weave GitOps Enterprise](weave-gitops-enterprise) |
| [Weave GitOps Enterprise - Airgap Environmnets](weave-gitops-enterprise/airgap) |
| [AWS Marketplace](aws-marketplace.mdx)                 |

Commit message:

chore: update references
Updated every import and other URLs referencing the old Weave GitOps
repository.

website/versioned_docs/version-0.16.0/installation/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Installation
hide_title: true
---

## Installing Flux-GUI

### Pre-requisites

#### Kubernetes Cluster

No matter which version of Flux-GUI you install, having a Kubernetes cluster up
and running is required. This version of Flux-GUI is tested against the following
[Kubernetes releases](https://kubernetes.io/releases/):

| Kubernetes Release | End of Life |
| ------------------ | ----------- |
| 1.25               | 2023-10-27  |
| 1.24               | 2023-07-28  |
| 1.23               | 2023-02-28  |
| 1.22               | 2022-10-28  |

Note that the version of [Flux](https://fluxcd.io/docs/installation/#prerequisites) that you use might impose further minimum version requirements.

### Installing Flux-GUI itself

Depending on your setup and requirement you have the following choice

| Installation                                           |
| ------------------------------------------------------ |
| [Flux-GUI](weave-gitops.mdx)                       |
| [Flux-GUI Enterprise](weave-gitops-enterprise) |
| [Flux-GUI Enterprise - Airgap Environmnets](weave-gitops-enterprise/airgap) |
| [AWS Marketplace](aws-marketplace.mdx)                 |
